=> /fr/gemini.gmi Version francaise

# The Gemini protocol

Gemini is an alternative Internet protocol designed to offer a simple, lightweight and privacy-respecting browsing experience. Situated between Gopher and the modern Web, Gemini eliminates the excessive complexity of today's web while remaining practical and accessible.

## Key features
* Minimalist protocol with no JavaScript or tracking
* Simple document format (gemtext)
* Fast loading and low bandwidth consumption
* Focus on content rather than presentation
* Encrypted connections by default (mandatory TLS)

## Access this site via Gemini

To visit this capsule via the native Gemini protocol:
```bash
gemini://gemini.guifl.com:443
```
You will need a Gemini client to access this address. Some popular options:

* Lagrange (cross-platform graphical interface)
* Amfora (terminal client)
* Bombadillo (multi-protocol terminal client)

## Resources
=> https://geminiprotocol.net Web version of the documentation

## Why Gemini?
The modern web has become heavy, complex and invasive. Gemini represents a return to the essentials: accessible content, simple navigation, and respect for user privacy. It is a space where the protocol itself prevents tracking and over-complexity.

## This capsule

This personal site is hosted on the Gemini protocol and is also available on the traditional web thanks to a gemtext to HTML converter I wrote in C.

The Gemini server itself is also written in C, handling request parsing, TLS and static content serving.

=> https://github.com/GuiFlam/gemini-protocol-c My Gemini server and gemtext to HTML converter

=> / Back to home
